README.md, before:

# Reactiv-8

A React based quiz

---

<h1>R<sub>E</sub>A<sup>C</sup>T<sub>I</sub>V<sup>8</sup></h1>
<img src="https://thumbs.gfycat.com/AcclaimedFarflungGoose-size_restricted.gif" width="350">

I'm borrowing the name from 👽 [Altern 8](https://www.discogs.com/artist/12846-Altern-8) 👽 _because they rock!_

---

# Things I need to understand

- how to create a _React_ project `npx create-react-app name-of-app`
- understanding _components_ [this will help](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
- functional components & props
- React [states & lifecylces](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html#using-state-correctly)
- Hooks in React, [this will help](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html)

<img src="https://www.wikihow.com/images/thumb/7/72/Throw-a-Hook-Punch-Step-17.jpg/aid57007-v4-1200px-Throw-a-Hook-Punch-Step-17.jpg" alt="hooks" width="200"/>

---

# Must have requirements

- A trivia style quiz
- Settings (subject, difficulty, amount of questions, ...)
- Score / Report card

## Extras

- Go wild
- Make it super mobile friendly
- Deploy it online
- Keep high scores of your players
- Connect with Node and Socket.io to make it multiplayer!

---

## Problems encountered

- I
- will
- add
- lots
- to
- this
- later
- 😈

---

## Notes

- when writing HTML inside of React, `className="smthng"` is used as opposed to the usual `class="smthng"`, because class is already reserved for JS Class
- JSX (JavaScript eXtensible Markup Language) is often used in place of JS files, these files make HTML insertion more readable & efficient
- _Props = Properties._ A function or class should never modify the props `<i need to add a code example!!>`

---

# Everything starts with a ROOT

<img src="https://www.vibconferences.be/sites/default/files/styles/event_slider_detail/public/2021-12/bean%20root_GPhase_larger.jpg?itok=rM6rEswE" alt="root" width="200">

`<div id="root"></div>`
this is a 'root' in HTML that we've already created

`const root = ReactDOM.createRoot( document.getElementById('root') );`
this is how you'd create a root in JS

`const element = <h1>Hello, world</h1>; root.render(element);`
this is how you would render the H1 element _inside_ of the DOM root

<img src="https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTd52I-c85SXhitEEJ75i7y_7PfQujbIWRbOA&usqp=CAU" alt="dom" width="200">

---

# Generate Components

To generate a new component with the CLI `npx generate-react-cli component ExampleName` _PascalCase can be used for components_

Commit message:

first components generated & imported correctly

README.md, after:

# Reactiv-8

A React based quiz

---

<h1>R<sub>E</sub>A<sup>C</sup>T<sub>I</sub>V<sup>8</sup></h1>
<img src="https://thumbs.gfycat.com/AcclaimedFarflungGoose-size_restricted.gif" width="350">

I'm borrowing the name from 👽 [Altern 8](https://www.discogs.com/artist/12846-Altern-8) 👽 _because they rock!_

---

# Things I need to understand

- how to create a _React_ project `npx create-react-app name-of-app`
- understanding _components_ [this will help](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
- functional components & props
- React [states & lifecylces](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html#using-state-correctly)
- Hooks in React, [this will help](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html)

<img src="https://www.wikihow.com/images/thumb/7/72/Throw-a-Hook-Punch-Step-17.jpg/aid57007-v4-1200px-Throw-a-Hook-Punch-Step-17.jpg" alt="hooks" width="200"/>

---

# Must have requirements

- A trivia style quiz
- Settings (subject, difficulty, amount of questions, ...)
- Score / Report card

## Extras

- Go wild
- Make it super mobile friendly
- Deploy it online
- Keep high scores of your players
- Connect with Node and Socket.io to make it multiplayer!

---

## Steps taken

- Created the app with `npx create-react-app reactiv-8` _cd_ to reactiv-8 then `npm start`
- in public/index.html the boilerplate already provides `<div id="root"></div>` this is a good place to start!
- my first 'test' is to change the index.html <p> element, this worked successfully. (learn to crawl first, then walk)
- now I'll generate some components: Header, Navigation, Footer, GameWindow. Maybe more will be needed but this should be good to begin with `npx generate-react-cli component Header` etc.
- CLI gave a few options, I'll link the screenshot later..
- Once the components are created, they need to be imported like: `import Header from "./components/Header/Header";` this goes at the beginning of the App.js (this could change, like the Russian Doll approach, if the component is only used INSIDE of header, it should be imported there for example). The exports are auto-generated with the CLI
- inside of App.js, the <Header /> tag needs to be called to display this component, inside of Header.js <Nav /> needs to be called (& imported of course) & so on & so form & all that jazz.
- in Main.js try to fetch using the coaches' code

## Problems encountered

- I
- will
- add
- lots
- to
- this
- later
- 😈

---

## Notes

- when writing HTML inside of React, `className="smthng"` is used as opposed to the usual `class="smthng"`, because class is already reserved for JS Class. Keep an eye open for more cases like this!
- JSX (JavaScript eXtensible Markup Language) is often used in place of JS files, these files make HTML insertion more readable & efficient
- _Props = Properties._ A function or class should never modify the props `<i need to add a code example!!>`
- ***

# Everything starts with a ROOT

<img src="https://www.vibconferences.be/sites/default/files/styles/event_slider_detail/public/2021-12/bean%20root_GPhase_larger.jpg?itok=rM6rEswE" alt="root" width="200">

```jsx
<div id="root"></div>;
//this is a 'root' in HTML that we've already created

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
//this is how you'd create a root in JS

const element = <h1>Hello, world</h1>;
root.render(element);
//this is how you would render the H1 element _inside_ of the DOM root
```

<img src="https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTd52I-c85SXhitEEJ75i7y_7PfQujbIWRbOA&usqp=CAU" alt="dom" width="200">

---

# Generate Components

To generate a new component with the CLI `npx generate-react-cli component ExampleName` _PascalCase can be used for components_
